now Palestinians have been fleeing
gaza's Second City Han Yunis after the
Israeli military ordered evacuations of
part of the city in the South again a
ground operation has already taken place
there and people Express their anger
over being displaced once more they
announced that we should evacuate out of
the Eastern parts of kulas where should
we go tell us where to go when we were
displaced from Rafa we had to spend 2
weeks out in the
open we peace not war enough is enough
we are slowly dying this is unfair what
is our fault we are innocent
civilians it comes as Kat the arm of the
Israeli Army responsible for logistical
coordination issued a clarification
after the European hospital near hanun
was evacuated too they said the call to
move towards the al- mawasi humanitarian
Zone does not apply to the patients in
the European hospital or the medical
staff working there however on the found
evacuations had already taken place Dr
Muhammed Tahir is a British surgeon
who's been operating at the European
hospital near Han Yunis he works with
fuder scientific a group of medical
professionals he says he was ordered to
leave I'd been at Al nassa medical
complex where I was lecturing a medical
students I returned to the European
hospital to start my operating and then
uh we got the the news that the hospital
was being evacuated of course I found
that to be uh very very strange because
I always assumed the European Hospital
would be one of the safe havens in Gaza
um and yet the news was confirmed to us
that it was actually in the red zone and
had been um uh deemed unsafe our team uh
Mission uh and our leaders uh asked us
to leave uh and we've been hosted by a
very uh generous NGO by the name of
cadis right now but um prior to leaving
of course we witnessed all the uh
injured um of varying severities uh
forced to stay in the hospital and all
the persons and families that camped in
the hospital were
evacuating the state of uh panic and the
extent of the fear was extremely
palpable uh some people have nowhere to
go some people have nowhere safe to
be I asked our Middle East correspondent
Sebastian Usher what we know about the
current situation in the
hospital well I mean it's been a
slightly confused situation as you were
saying um the Israeli Army says that it
didn't issue a specific evacuation order
for the hospital but I think uh there
the medical staff and patients people
there seeing what has happened elsewhere
during the 9 months of Israeli offensive
against Hamas and Gaza what's happened
in other hospitals felt that uh the
safest thing was to evacuate and the
Health Ministry in Gaza run by Hamas did
Issue it says an evacuation order for
people to leave some of the patients
have been taken to NASA Hospital others
have found shelter elsewhere as you know
we are not reporting directly on the
ground we're receiving information from
uh our freelance journalists in Gaza we
we we don't know exactly the situation
of hospital at the moment how many
people are still left there but it
hasn't come under any attack as far as
we know uh the Israeli Army issued a
statement an hour or two ago saying that
it did carry out overnight strikes on
some of these areas towns and villages
to the east of Han yunas where they
issued the evacuation order on Monday
evening uh first of all in an audio
message and then online um and people
did start to leave then and then when
these strikes began to happen more more
more people started uh to flee their
homes now remember hunas is a second
City in Gaza it's a place that we saw
images of after the Israeli troops
pulled out a month or two ago when
people began to return home of total
devastation people described trying to
find their homes that they could no
longer recognize the streets where they
were but despite all that many people
did return as they were fleeing the
latest subsequent offensive against
Hamas by Israel down in Rafa where many
people have been fled to so what we've
been hearing and as what we were hearing
there in the interview you had with
someone from the area is that people are
once again on the move some people
who've been displaced already maybe five
or six six times Sebastian Asha there in
over the last few minutes we've heard
from the United Nations that they say
250,000 people in southern Gaza have
been affected by Israel's new evacuation
order so 250,000 people affected by that
evacuation order according to the UN